By now, you should have a sense of how
word embeddings can help you build NLP
applications.
One of the most fascinating properties
of word embeddings is that they can also
help with analogy reasoning.
And while reasonable analogies may not
be by itself the most important NLP
application, they might also help convey
a sense of what these word embeddings
are doing,
what these word embeddings can do.
Let me show you what I mean here are the
featurized representations of a set of
words that you might hope
a word embedding could capture.
Let's say I pose a question,
man is to woman as king is to what?
Many of you will say,
man is to woman as king is to queen.
But is it possible to have an algorithm
figure this out automatically?
Well, here's how you could do it,
let's say that you're using this four
dimensional vector to represent man.
So this will be your E5391,
although just for
this video,
let me call this e subscript man.
And let's say that's the embedding
vector for woman, so
I'm going to call that e subscript woman,
and similarly for king and queen.
And for this example,
I'm just going to assume you're
using four dimensional embeddings,
rather than anywhere from 50 to 1,000
dimensional, which would be more typical.
One interesting property of these
vectors is that if you take the vector,
e man, and
subtract the vector e woman, then,
You end up with approximately -1,
negative another 1 is -2, decimal 0- 0,
0- 0, close to 0- 0, so
you get roughly -2 0 0 0.
And similarly if you take
e king minus e queen,
then that's approximately the same thing.
That's about -1- 0.97, it's about -2.
This is about 1- 1, since kings and
queens are both about equally royal.
So that's 0, and then age difference,
food difference, 0.
And so what this is capturing
is that the main difference
between man and woman is the gender.
And the main difference between king and
queen,
as represented by these vectors,
is also the gender.
Which is why the difference
e man- e woman, and
the difference e king- e queen,
are about the same.
So one way to carry out
this analogy reasoning is,
if the algorithm is asked,
man is to woman as king is to what?
What it can do is compute e man- e woman,
and
try to find a vector,
try to find a word so
that e man- e woman is close
to e king- e of that new word.
And it turns out that when queen
is the word plugged in here,
then the left hand side is close
to the the right hand side.
So these ideas were first pointed
out by Tomas Mikolov, Wen-tau Yih,
and Geoffrey Zweig.
And it's been one of
the most remarkable and
surprisingly influential
results about word embeddings.
And I think has helped the whole community
get better intuitions about
what word embeddings are doing.
So let's formalize how you can
turn this into an algorithm.
In pictures, the word embeddings live
in maybe a 300 dimensional space.
And so the word man is represented
as a point in the space,
and the word woman is represented
as a point in the space.
And the word king is
represented as another point,
and the word queen is
represented as another point.
And what we pointed out really
on the last slide is that
the vector difference between man and
woman is very similar to the vector
difference between king and queen.
And this arrow I just drew is really
the vector that represents a difference
in gender.
And remember, these are points we're
plotting in a 300 dimensional space.
So in order to carry out this kind of
analogical reasoning to figure out,
man is to woman is king is to what,
what you can do is try to find the word w,
So that, This equation
holds true, so you want there to be,
A high degree of a similarity,
between I'm going to use s,
And so what you want is to find
the word w that maximizes
the similarity between,
e w compared to e king- e man + e woman
Right, so what I did is,
I took this e question mark, and
replaced that with ew, and then brought
ew to just one side of the equation.
And then the other three terms to
the right hand side of this equation.
So we have some appropriate
similarity function for
measuring how similar is the embedding of
some word w to this quantity of the right.
Then finding the word that maximizes
the similarity should hopefully let you
pick out the word queen.
And the remarkable thing is,
this actually works.
If you learn a set of word embeddings and
find a word w that maximizes this type
of similarity, you can actually
get the exact right answer.
Depending on the details of the task,
but if you look at research papers,
it's not uncommon for research
papers to report anywhere from, say,
30% to 75% accuracy on analogy
using tasks like these.
Where you count an anology attempt
as correct only if it guesses
the exact word right.
So only if, in this case,
it picks out the word queen.
Before moving on, I just want to
clarify what this plot on the left is.
Previously, we talked about using
algorithms like t-SAE to visualize words.
What t-SAE does is, it takes 300-D data,
and it maps it in a very
non-linear way to a 2D space.
And so the mapping that t-SAE learns,
this is a very complicated and
very non-linear mapping.
So after the t-SAE mapping,
you should not expect these types of
parallelogram relationships, like the one
we saw on the left, to hold true.
And it's really in this original
300 dimensional space that
you can more reliably count on these
types of parallelogram relationships
in analogy pairs to hold true.
And it may hold true after a mapping
through t-SAE, but in most cases,
because of t-SAE's non-linear mapping,
you should not count on that.
And many of the parallelogram analogy
relationships will be broken by t-SAE.
Now, before moving on,
let me just quickly describe
the similarity function
that is most commonly used.
So the most commonly used similarity
function is called cosine similarity.
So this is the equation we
had from the previous slide.
So in cosine similarity, you define
the similarity between two vectors u and
v as u transpose v divided by
the lengths by the Euclidean lengths.
So ignoring the denominator for
now, this is basically the inner
product between u and v.
And so if u and v are very similar,
their inner product will tend to be large.
And this is called cosine
similarity because this is actually
the cosine of the angle between
the two vectors, u and v.
So that's the angle phi, so this formula
is actually the cosine between them.
And so you remember from
calculus that if this phi,
then the cosine of phi looks like this.
So if the angle between them is 0,
then the cosine similarity is equal to 1.
And if their angle is 90 degrees,
the cosine similarity is 0.
And then if they're 180 degrees, or
pointing in completely opposite
directions, it ends up being -1.
So that's where the term cosine similarity
comes from, and it works quite well for
these analogy reasoning tasks.
If you want,
you can also use square distance or
Euclidian distance, u-v squared.
Technically, this would be a measure
of dissimilarity rather than a measure
of similarity.
So we need to take the negative of this,
and this will work okay as well.
Although I see cosine similarity
being used a bit more often.
And the main difference between these
is how it normalizes the lengths of
the vectors u and v.
So one of the remarkable results about
word embeddings is the generality of
analogy relationships they can learn.
So for example, it can learn that
man is to woman as boy is to girl,
because the vector
difference between man and
woman, similar to king and queen and boy
and girl, is primarily just the gender.
It can learn that Ottawa,
which is the capital of Canada,
that Ottawa is to Canada
as Nairobi is to Kenya.
So that's the city capital is
to the name of the country.
It can learn that big is to
bigger as tall is to taller, and
it can learn things like that.
Yen is to Japan, since yen is the currency
of Japan, as ruble is to Russia.
And all of these things can
be learned just by running
a word embedding learning algorithm
on the large text corpus.
It can spot all of these
patterns by itself,
just by running from very
large bodies of text.
So in this video, you saw how
word embeddings can be used for
analogy reasoning.
And while you might not be trying to build
an analogy reasoning system yourself as
an application, this I hope conveys some
intuition about the types of feature-like
representations that these
representations can learn.
And you also saw how cosine
similarity can be a way to measure
the similarity between two
different word embeddings.
Now, we talked a lot about properties of
these embeddings and how you can use them.
Next, let's talk about how you'd
actually learn these word embeddings,
let's go on to the next video.